# Automation

Automations are used to manipulate the Controls that various Integrations may provide.

It is expected that Automation facilities will be signficantly expanded, so this page will be updated accordingly.

## Configuration

Like everything else in AGHAST, Automations are defined in TOML files.
They must be located in an `automation` directory inside your main configuration directory.

Here is an example Automation that turns on a couple of HVAC units every morning...
```
Name = "MorningHeatingStart"
Description = "Main Downstairs Heaters On"
Enabled = true

[Event]
  Name = "Time/Events/TimedEvent/MorningHeatingOn"

[Action.1]
  Integration = "Daikin"
  DeviceLabel = "Hall"
  Execute = [ { Control = "temperature", Setting = 21.0 },
              { Control = "mode",        Setting = "Heat" },
              { Control = "power",       Setting = "on" } ]

[Action.2]
  Integration = "Daikin"
  DeviceLabel = "Living Room"
  Execute = [ { Control = "temperature", Setting = 19.0 },
              { Control = "mode",        Setting = "Heat" },
              { Control = "power",       Setting = "on" } ]  
```
We will describe each section below.

### Preamble
 * Name - a unique identifier for this Automation
 * Description
 * Enabled - either `true` or `false`, controls whether the Automation is used or not

### Event
Automation processing is triggered by the arrival of an Event.  Two types of Event are currently implemented: Integration, and MQTT; they are identified by `Name` and `Topic` configurations respectively.

#### Integration Events
These Events are generated by Integrations and are identified as follows:
 * Name - the specific event that will trigger the Automation

The "TimedEvent" event source is particularly useful for Automations - see [Time](../integrations/time/time.go) for details.

#### MQTT Events
These Events come from MQTT and are simply identified by the MQTT topic:
 * Topic - eg. "aghast/client/DemoButton"


### Condtion
You may optionally specify a Condition that must be satisfied for the Automation to proceed...
```
[Condition]
  Integration = "PiMqttGpio"
  Name = "MusicRoomTemp"
  Is = "<"                # one of: "=", "!=", "<", ">", 
  Value = 17.0
```

Some Integrations supply multiple results (eg. Scraper) and you will need to add an `Index = ` line to the Condition.

There are several Condition types:
 * Is - as above, must have comparitor and Value specified
 * Index - same as "Is" but for a specified Value from an array of Values
 * IsAvailable - either `true` or `false`
 * IsOn - either `true` or `false`

### Actions
One or more Actions must be attached to an Event to form an Automation.

The label `[Action.<label>]` in the Action header is used to sort the actions alphanumerically.

To be usable by Automations, an Integration must provide an (AGHAST-internal) `Control` device type; this will receive Control settings and apply them to physical devices.

The first three lines of an Action specify the device to be controlled...
 * Integration - the Integration receiving the Control
 * DeviceType - the type of device receiving the Control
 * DeviceName - the specific device being controlled

Then follow an `Execute` section with one or more lines containing Control instructions...
 * Execute [ ] - containing by one or more Control-Setting pairs enclosed in { }s
 * Control - the Control provided by the Integration
 * Setting - a value to set the Control

Although slightly cumbersome for the simplest case, this syntax allows whole groups of Controls for a specific Device to be set with a short script.
